---
date: 2026-04-29 00:00:00
layout: post
title: "COpter: Efficient Large-Scale Resource-Allocation via Continual Optimization"
subtitle: remove overhead of round-based resource allocation -> sequence of interconnected problems
description: remove overhead of round-based resource allocation -> sequence of interconnected problems
category: library
tags:
  - paper-review
  - SOSP
  - "2025"
image: /assets/img/uploads/cat/2.jpg
optimized_image: /assets/img/uploads/cat/2.jpg
author: Sujin
paginate: true
---

**Venue:** SOSP 2025  
**Link:** [ACM DL](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3731569.3764846)

**Topic:** Let's not do unnecessary steps. Let's reuse history. Remove unneccesary overhead(round-based method) in Large-Scale resource allocation. 

---
# Summary
There is only small changes between rounds 
-> remove overhead of round-based resource allocation -> treat those as sequence of interconnected problems
Let's not do unnecessary steps. Let's reuse history. 

---

# Background

## Resource allocation needs mathmatical programming / optimization-based methods
- Traditional heuristics: offers simplicity / but can't secure Quality of Service and fairness policies.
- So we need mathmatical programming or optimization-based methods: frame resource allocation as linear programs(LPs) or mixed-integer linear programs (MILPs) solvable by modern numerical solvers.

## But Mathmatical programming / optimization-based methods are not scalable
- So the scope is mathmatical programming / optimization-based methods. but,
- often exceeds practical time limits, and round duration.
- We shouldn't increase round duration: resource idle time would increase.


## Prior Approaches' limitation : Mitigate solver costs
1. They either degrade allocation quality or fail to meet real-time scheduling deadlines. 
- scalling solvers to large clusters often can't make frequent, globally-optimal scheduling -> exist systems stick to coarse-grained optimization (hourly, daily)

2. The allocation problem in each round is treated as an independent problem instance. and this makes work expensive.
- fundamental mismatch: the modeling of round-based resource-allocation problems vs. many large-scale systems evolve slowly across rounds, so actually we can just reuse info from fore rounds. (most jobs from the previous round continue executing without much change to their allocations)

## Prior Approaches examples
1. Warm-starting: not universally applicable
2. Solver computation: not efficiently parallelized.
3. GPU acceleration : not always applicable, due to the sparse nature of the solver compute. @why solver compute has sparse nature?
4. Forcibly terminating solvers early by setting a compute/time budget: can return sub-optimal and/or infeasible solutions that may be meaningless. @ But is sub-optimal that bad??? i don't think so... it doesn't need to be the BEST solution isn't it?
5. Partitions a large problem into small pieces and solves them in parallel (POP): allocation quality <-> runtime(responsiveness) tradeoff.  
Generally, allocations are reconsidered every few minutes (a round) by formulating and solving a new optimization problem.

## What if we adapt existing solvers to reuse computational effort from prior rounds? : not straightforward.
1. small change to the input problem -> require reconstructing solver-specific problem representations = significant setup cost for even the smallest change @the root cause : matrix is sparse?
2. Solvers need to reconstruct key internel transformations, discarding all prior computational effort.
3. for MILP resource-allocation problems, further exacerbates the scalability challenge for large problems.


---
# Key Idea

## Observation
Optimization-based resource allocation problems often only change by small amounts across successive rounds.

## Action
continual optimization: remove overhead of round-based resource allocation -> sequence of interconnected problems

## Target
COpter provides a method for continual optimization of 
- Linear Programs (LP)
- Mixed Integer Linear Programs (MILP) 
formulations of resource allocation problems.

## How
1. an efficient-to-update problem representation for incremental changes (reflect small changes).
2. Exploit the slow evolution of the optimal solution to efficiently warm-start subsequent problem solves.
3. lightweight heuristics for mixed-integer problems that recover feasible integer solutions with negligible quality loss instead of expensive combinatorial searches entirely.

## Goal
Continual optimization: provide both low dynamic regret and runtimes that scale favorably with the amount of change in the optimal solution over time, especially for slowly evolving resource-allocation problems.


---

# Design
1. an efficient-to-update problem representation for incremental changes (reflect small changes).
    - API : add-request(request ID, num variables), remove-request(request ID), add/remove-resources(resource ID, count)
2. Exploit the slow evolution of the optimal solution to efficiently warm-start subsequent problem solves.
    - Don't clean up former state. there is only few changes. start from former state. 
    - use PPA(Proximal Point Algorithms) to maintain an easily recomputable internal state. It supports warm-starting and exhibits practical, finite-step convergence for LPs.
3. Lightweight integerization for MILPs: priortize feasibility over optimality
: instead of heavy & guarantee optimality of the integer-feasible solution, choose heuristic & lightweight way
    - After solving the LP relaxation of the MILP, techniques like branch-and-cut are used to fix integer infeasibilities. 
    - Since this integer resolution stage frequently dominates the overall solution time, it creates a significant scalability bottleneck.
    - branch-and-cut guarantees optimality of the integer-feasible solution, this is a bottleneck step
    - COpter introduces lightweight post-processing, using shims, to produce integer-feasible solutions from the optimal solution to the LP-relaxation.

---

# Evaluation
- on problems in three domains: GPU cluster scheduling, shard load balancing, and WAN traffic engineering

- Recovers high quality solutions, solve problems with millions of variables using just a few CPU threads. @how?
- Overall, COpter finds high-quality solutions while reducing solver runtimes by 57–83× compared to state of-the-art commercial solvers. 
- Compared to problem partitioning approaches (POP), COpter simultaneously improves allocation quality and reduces end-to-end allocator runtimes by 1.5–30×.

---


# Related Works
## Resource-allocation as Optimization Problems
### Cluster Scheduling
1. Plan-ahead schedulers/ Tetri-Sched, Shockwave: solve one MILP to determine allocations for multiple rounds 
    - pros: robust to missing scheduler deadlines in large clusters
    - cons: increased queue time & reduced resource utilization(because it needs to conservative).
2. Solves MILPs hourly & use 2-stage decomposition/ RAS: 
    - requires problem-specific optimizations & heuristics to scale the MILP stage to large scales. @then why COpter doesn't have this problem?
3. Multilevel scheduling for scalability/ Tetris: lacks global optimality. @why?
4. Gavel:supports time-slicing DNN jobs across heterogeneous GPUs using LP formulations for many scheduling objectives
    - but runs into solver bottlenecks if jobs request space-sharing leading to missed scheduler deadlines in large clusters. @why?
5. express and compile scheduling policies into MILPs/ Rebalancer
    - for small scales: The MILPs are then solved using off-the-shelf solvers
    - for large scales: use a faster, sub-optimal local search algorithm on a graph representation

COpter complements Rebalancer.
1. potentially extending the size of problems directly solvable as MILPs @what?
2. using COpter’s outputs as initial guesses to initialize the local-search algorithm at scale for better quality solutions. @what?

## Solving Optimizaiton Problems @then which side COpter belongs?: Online I think.
### Offline optimization
- deals with problems that are fully specified before optimization starts.
- scale poorly to large problem issues due to high per-iterationcosts. @why?
    - can be mitigated: trading slower convergence for lower per-iteration costs.

### Online optimization 
- deals with problems that are revealed over time, often minimizing regret
- existing work does not focus on runtime efficiency that is important for slowly evolving resource-allocation problems.

---


# Inputs
- Linear program: maximize or minimize something (objective) subject to linear constraints


---

# Meeting Notes
- When it comes to contribution, it can be considered not very good because 2 of 3 are trade off and 1 is just using PPA.
- New idea? :
    - is there another situation that evolves slowly? : checkpoint

