---
date: 2026-07-08 00:00:00
layout: post
title: "Coyote v2: Raising the Level of Abstraction for Data Center FPGAs"
subtitle: ""
description: ""


category: library
tags:
  - paper-review
  - SOSP
  - "2025"
  - FPGA
  - Shell

image: /assets/img/uploads/cat/39.jpg
optimized_image: /assets/img/uploads/cat/39.jpg
author: Sujin
paginate: true
---

---
# Topic
FPGA shell optimization

# Problem: Integrating FPGA in larger systems is challenging.
### Everytime, should start developing from scratch.
So should spend almost 75% effort to build just the infrastructure (networking, I/O, communication w.host)

### Can't reuse the infrastructure
infrastructure is tightly integrated w. app
@ is there any trial to solve this out from the prior work?

---
# Prior works: let's focus on FPGA shells optimization
## why?
- FPGA shell provides abstraction & infrastructure to access shared resources.
- FPGA shell can include features: ex) memory virtualization, run-time reconfiguration, or process isolations

## Limitation
priorworks
- can't support complex services, such as networking stacks.
- even they support it, they can't reconfigure service in runtime.


## Why we should reconfigure service?
realworld workloads are dynaimc in nature.
ex. switching from TCP/IP to RDMA ... etc

---
# Goal & Solution
## 1. Support commonly used services @ how to achieve?
ex) memory controllers(HBM), networking stacks (RDMA, TCP/IP), compression & encryption cores, memory virtualization.. etc

### Implement service compatibly
#### ex.) Seamlessly moves data : host CPU <-> FPGA
highly configurable memory management unit @ how? 


## 2. Makes service reconfigurable
### Solution : seperate the service from static layer, and reconfigure it dynamically.
#### Effect
1. simplify static layer -> easier to port to other FPGAs
2. independent run-time reconfiguration of both services & user apps -> partial reconfiguration takes much less time than full reconfiguration
3. Can reuse upper layers -> reduce synthesis times



## Also need to cover what other priorworks have
## 3. Spatial sharing with partial reconfiguration of the user region
support

---
# Further Improvement
## Improved Pipelining to run application /by Service multiple requests simultaneously @how? 
thanks to abstraction

## low latency in data movement :by host memory <-> user application
bypassing FPGA HBM @how?

## Interface allows user applications to issue DMA requests from HW, (rather than relying on the host software) @ how?

## Generic interrupt interface



---
# Design
## 3 layer hardware design
### 0. shell
reconfigured with config & can be set partially / dynamically.
shell is fully parameterized by its services & user apps. 

### 1. static layer
- static layers job is only : provide a link between the host CPU <-> the FPGA
- route the data & control signals -> correct service, user layer
- Main component : device driver
#### CPU-FPGA Link
to handle data & control flow: use XDMA core / can be controlled from both CPU and FPGA => fast and easy to control
- do writeback : update host memory counter when fransfer finishes -> reduce unnecessary PCIe polling -> free up bandwidth

#### Reconfiguration controller
fully utilize the ICAP bandwidth
by loading the bitstream from host memory via PCIe & dedicated XDMA channel.


### 2. the dynamic (service) layer
#### Multi-tenant Fair Sharing
- packetization: divide stransferes into chunks -> precise control / efficient saturation of both local & remote links
- round-robin : distributes limited bandwidth links -> fair resource allocation / preserve order

### 3. the application (user) layer
consist of multiple parallel vFPGAs

#### Generic App interface
- control bus : memory-mapped for each vFPGA directly into the user space , bypassing the kernel -> lower latency
- interrupt channel
- parallel {host, card, network} interface
- read & write {send, completion} : parallel -> higher performance / compared to CPU control all data transfer = bottleneck

#### Security
- per-vFPGA MMU: ensuring memory isolation between multiple vFPGAs
- credit system : tackle back pressure & deadlocks
## User-facing, high-level software API



---
# Evaluation
reduces synthesis times between 15% and 20% and run-time reconfiguration times by an order of magnitude, when compared to existing systems. 

---
# Thoughts


---
# Inputs
## What is FPGA?: Customizable hardware
A field programmable gate array (FPGA) is a flexible integrated circuit that can be reprogrammed after manufacturing to perform custom digital logic functions.
 
## HDL / Hardware Description Language
Describes hardware circuits

## Intellectual Property core
a block of logic or data that is used in the creation of a semiconductor chip
a reusable HDL component in FPGA, programmable system-on-chip (SoC), and ASIC design

## The Memory Management Unit (MMU)
responsible for the translation of virtual addresses used by software to physical addresses used in the memory system.

## High Bandwidth Memory (HBM) 
type of computer memory that is designed to provide both high-bandwidth and low power consumption
- HBM achieves high bandwidth by having many parallel memory channels, and it achieves lower power consumption by placing the memory close to the processor and reducing the energy needed to move data.

## What is card in FPGA?
FPGA boards

## DMA: Direct Memory Access
allows hardware components to access the main system memory independently of the CPU.
### RDMA : Remote DMA
Network-based DMA, Different machines, ex) Server A RAM ↔ Server B RAM
### XDMA/QDMA : Local DMA
Specific DMA hardware IP, Same machine, ex) FPGA ↔ CPU RAM through PCIe

## AXI : Advanced eXtensible Interface.
a standard hardware communication interface (protocol) used in FPGA and SoC designs to let different hardware modules communicate with each other.

## SRAM == cache , DRAM == memory

## Memory striping 
splitting data across multiple memory banks/channels so they can work in parallel.
